# New PixelLab Tool: Animate Between 2 Frames

- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1CjxHZoZE_I
- **Upload date:** 20260325
- **Type:** video
- **Channel:** PixelLab AI (@PixelLab_AI)

---

What is going on guys? Welcome back to the channel. This is Nikola right here. Hope you guys are doing amazing. So today I'm going to be showing you our new interpolation tool for animations. So you can find it either in creator, you go [music] to tools, you go to animate and besides the animate with text new, you can find the interpolate new. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Boom. And that lets you add a first and last frame so you can animate a character or any pixel art image. And it's also available in A Sprite and [music] Pixelorama. So you go to animate and you can find it here at interpolate new. And boom, you can set a start image and an end image. [music] So I'm going to be using the creator page just because here we have a prompt [music] enhancer. In A Sprite you won't be finding that. So let's give it a try. So first we need a character or something we're going to work with so we can try [music] it out. So let's make one. A beautiful mage wearing a red robe [music] using the create image pro tool. All right, there we go. All right, so let's try this. So the first thing I'm going to do so we need a first frame and a last frame. So I'm going to try this. I'm going to go Okay, so just to make it easy I'm going to go ahead and use this one. I'm going to go to A Sprite and let's do the simplest example. I'm going to get rid of this fireball right here. I'm going to save it. Now &gt;&gt; we're going to go to animate interpolate. We're going to have this as the last frame and we're going to have this as the first frame. Now we're going to describe the animation. So the mage [music] does a spell where a fireball appears on her hands. So we can try that. Here we have the frame count. So depending on the size you'll be able to select how many frames your animation will have. The good thing about this model same with the animate [music] with text new is that we can do a good amount of frames. So for 64 by 64 we can do like 16 frames and for bigger sizes I think 128 by 128 you can also do 16. We'll test it out in a bit. And [music] for 256 by 256 I think it's less, but it's still a good amount. I think it's like eight. So let's try this out. I'm going to do like what? 10 frames for this one. And I'm not going to use the prompt enhancer for this one just so we can see how the [music] model performs. All right, let's see what happens. So we can see the frames. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Now let's see it playing. Ooh, look at that. And of course we can always download it. We can open it up in A Sprite or in your software of preference or either A Sprite, Pixelorama or whatever. And we can of course fix [music] some details like this little detail that just got removed. And there you go. That's pretty awesome. So now let's try it with the prompt [music] enhancer. So I'm just going to click enhance with AI and there you go. We got a much better prompt. Now I'm just going to click generate one more time. Now let's check this one out. All right, yep. So as you can see the description matched. So as she concentrates and she's actually concentrating. We got some lighting as well affecting the character which is cool. So yeah, that's the first test. All right, so I got this cool dude that I just made in 128 by 128 and I'm going to go to edit image pro. I'm going to drag it in here and I'm going to say make it be the first frame of the attack [music] starting {slash} attack. And I'm just going to hit generate. All right, so that works. Let's try it to go ahead and interpolate it. So we're going to be using this other first frame and this as our last frame. Just going to do {slash} attack and I'm going to enhance the prompt. [music] As you can see it takes in the context of the actual image you're giving it. So I'm going to put the frame count to 10 and let's see how that goes. Look at that. That's pretty sick, not going to lie. That's pretty cool. All right, so moving on. You can also use it for walking animations. So check this out. If we take this awesome mage boom and boom, we put it as first and last frame, we can do a walking animation. Let's do walking with hair flowing, right? Let's enhance the prompt. There you go. Pretty nice prompt. And let's do like um &gt;&gt; yeah, eight eight frames. Let's do it. All right, so let's check it out. Look at that. Look at that. It just froze for one frame because I mean we can we can just delete that one frame, but we have a full walking animation. Look at that. That's amazing. So of course we can clean it up like I said. Always clean your sprites up. I say this in every video and I'm going to keep saying it. Don't expect it to be 100% perfect. But hey, we got 95% No, 99% of the way there. Look at that. Who's even talking? And of course you can edit that out. You can change the mouth. You can change whatever. But look at that beautiful walking animation with the hair flowing and everything. Whoa, just whoa. All right, let's try another use case. Transformations. Check this out. So I have my first frame which is a car and my last frame which is like a Transformers version of it. I'm going to prompt the car [music] transforms into a Transformers like figure. I'll enhance the prompt and hit generate. And look at that. That's what I call a Transformers. One more Transformers for you guys. This one in 256 by 256. So here we get eight frames. I'll prompt the Transformers turns back into a car [music] and enhance the prompt. And check it out. Pretty neat. Of course you can go to edit in Pixelorama right here and edit your sprites, clean them up or even reduce colors with our reduce colors tool using your own palette or just reducing the amount of colors in the images. All right, so now let's try it out in A Sprite. So same thing. Here we have first and last frame. We go to the animate category. We find interpolate new. &gt;&gt; There we go. And we put our start image and our end image. There we go. Now we can just prompt something like the chest rumbles and opens. I don't know. Let's try it out. I'm going to put it right here. New frame, remove the background and hit generate. All right, it's the moment of truth. Let's see. Yeah, exactly what I asked for. &gt;&gt; The chest rumbled. I'm just going to make it a little bit slower. Look at that. Yeah, and of course clean it up. Boom. Boom. There we go. Yeah. And of course you can shorten it, you know, or you can ask for less frames. I asked for a bunch of frames just for this simple animation, but you can ask for less frames or you can of course pick and choose, you know, like we don't have to have all of this happening at the same time. So I can just you know, shorten it a bit. Let's see. Let's see. See? And yep, there you go. Awesome. So to end this video I'm going to try a nice portal. I have this nice empty portal and I'm going to go to the inpaint tool and I'm going to prompt a really cool portal. Now I'm just going to paint on the inpainting layer where I want the portal to appear, hit remove background and click generate. And there we go. That's beautiful. So with this I'm going to head to the interpolation tool and I'm going to set the first and last frame. I'm going to prompt a magical portal activates [music] showing the universe. And let's do 12 frames for this one. And look at that. Amazing. Let's do one last test. Let's take this frame and set it as the first frame as well so we can try and loop the portal. I'll prompt a magical portal loops showing the universe loop animation and hit generate. And yeah, that's pretty awesome if I say so myself. So, that's our new interpolate tool and it's live on our website Aseprite and Pixelorama. Make sure to check it out and share your creations with us.
