# How to Make Animated Pixel Art Scenes with PixelLab

- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1FWEXTiJnlc
- **Upload date:** 20260406
- **Type:** video
- **Channel:** PixelLab AI (@PixelLab_AI)

---

What is going on, guys? Welcome back to the channel. Today, [music] we are going to be looking at how to animate your characters, &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; your background, or your whole scene. So, let's get right into it. So, there's a couple ways you can approach this. You could either start with the background, and then get the character into the background. [music] You could start with the character, and then make a background around it. Or, you could just make a full scene. So, we're going to try all three of them. So, let's try to make the background first. I'm going to go to creator, but you can go to either Aseprite, Pixelorama, or here. And I'm going to use the create image pro tool, which lets me do all of these different sizes. So, you can either do a 1x1 aspect ratio, or you can do 16x9, 3x2, 2x3, etc. [music] So, let's try 384x216. I'm going to try that. So, I'm going to prompt an ancient [music] forest shrine. I'll do magical fantasy pixel art background, side view, just to make sure we got the perspective, and I'll make sure to prompt no characters, cuz right now I'm just looking for a background. So, I'll just hit generate, and let's see what we get. All right, cool. So, we got a pretty nice scene right here. And now, we could actually get the character into it, right? So, what we could do is we could either go to edit [music] in Pixelorama, which will take us to Pixelorama, and we can edit it there and do whatever we want there. Or, we can take it into Aseprite. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy it right here, and I'm going to go to Aseprite. I'm just going to paste it. And now, here, I'm going to work on it. Let's see. So, the first thing I would do with this beautiful scene is use our new pixel correction tool, which allows us to basically clean it up, and maybe reduce some colors, you know, make it look more cohesive. &gt;&gt; So, I'm going to set the image, and I'm not going to do a lot of strength. [music] I'm going to do like five. Let's try that. I'm going to do new frame. And as you can see, it reduces a lot of the noise that we had. And you can, of course, do even less [music] strength. So, we can do like two, maybe. Let's try that. So, yeah. With two, it was perfect, honestly. It just reduced some of the colors, &gt;&gt; made it a little bit even more contrasty, but it does leave the details, you know? The wooden textures and stuff like that. So, now that we have that cleaned up, right? Now, we can go ahead and add [music] a character. So, since we were using the pro tool, and [music] the 384x216 size is already supported, we can actually go to the inpaint, inpaint V3, which would be &gt;&gt; inpaint pro, basically, and we can inpaint our character right in the scene. So, I'm going to go to the inpainting layer. I'm just going to draw where I want my character to appear. So, I would say something like this. It doesn't have to be perfect. The model is pretty smart. So, I'm going to describe a young mage full body fantasy sprite wearing a robe [music] and staff, facing slightly toward the altar. And now, I'm just going to choose the output method, which will be new layer [music] with changes, because that'll just keep whatever we're adding, and not the full background. And we're going to do remove background. As you can see, there's also the use selection tool to select painting area, and that is more for like bigger pictures or unsupported [music] canvas But since this is a supported size, it'll work without it. &gt;&gt; So, I'm just going to click generate. And look at that. That's a pretty cool mage. So, as you can see, we only get the edited thing, and not the full image. And now, we can basically remove the background from him. So, we can go to remove background. So, we do mage with staff for the description. And we'll just hit generate. And there we go. It perfectly removed the background. Now, we just fix these small little pixel details, and we should be all good. Yep, yep. Now, we have our character and our background. And now, we can basically animate both, or both of them together. So, let's explore that. So, what I would probably do first is animate the character. So, we have the character right here, and we could probably just take him, and take him into a new 128x128 canvas, so he fits right in. And we could go and do something like [music] animate. And if you wanted to do like an idle animation, we could do interpolate new, and we could do the start image and end image to be the same one. We could prompt something like breathing idle, glowing stone, hair moving, clothing moving with the wind. And we can just click enhance prompt. There we go. We have a much more detailed prompt. Now, we can choose the number of frames, of course. Depending on the size of your canvas, you get more or less frames. With 128x128, we get up to 16 frames. So, let's do something like eight frames. We'll do remove background, new frame, and let's hit generate. All right. Cool. Let's play it all together. All right, that's nice. So, we can just clean it up, of course, these stray pixels. Also, make sure the outline is proper. As I always mention in every video, make sure to clean your sprites up. You want it to be perfect. So, just clean it up. All right. So, let's say we're done with this animation. &gt;&gt; Now, we can take this back to here, make a new layer, just paste it in. And now, we can just move our character to where he belongs. I'm going to rename the layers just so we know who is who. And now, we can see our character breathing in our scene. Of course, you can reduce colors. You can, if you have a certain palette you like, you can go ahead and reduce the colors with your palette. Or, you can just automatically reduce colors, or specify the amount of colors you want. And you can process all of your frames. So, let's try that. I'm going to specify like, what, 30 colors? Let's try new layer, and let's quantize. And as you can see, the colors are more cohesive. Here, you can see it shifts a lot with the lighting and stuff. Quantized. Much better. And like I said, you can use your own palette. [music] We can try it here. And there you can see how it works with a certain [music] color palette. Of course, the results may vary, depending on how many colors your palette actually has, but this is just a nice example. All right, cool. So, I'm going to take this one. I'm going to bring it back here. I'm going to make one more new layer. I'm going to move it just so it matches. There we go. Call it mage. And [music] there we have it. All right, So, now, the next step would be to kind of animate the background, right? So, we would have to do this in parts. So, I'm just going to show you one of the parts, instead of doing the whole thing, because that would take a lot of time. Of course, remember you can always add stuff to make it look more realistic, right? So, since we have these in layers, right? We have the mage in the We don't really have a shadow for the mage. So, keep in mind to always be creative and, you know, maybe add a shadow here just to make it make more sense, you know? Makes it look more real, like it's part [music] of the scene. All right, so the next step, I think, will be editing the background. [music] So, let's try that. I kind of want the water to be flowing. So, let's try that first. Let's go to animate. [music] Let's go to interpolate new. I'm going to clear this. And I'm going to change the canvas size. So, let's do 256 by 256. As you can see, we kind of have missing &gt;&gt; areas. But, that's fine because we can just make a new layer, put it below the background. And now we can just fill it in with the black color. And we have like cinematic lines or borders, right? So, now &gt;&gt; I think I'm going to remove the character so we can just animate the background. And let's prompt. Well, [snorts] first let's set the start and end image. Now, let's prompt water flowing loop. &gt;&gt; Now, let's enhance the prompt. Here you go. And let's do number of frames eight. So, it's going to make six frames since [music] it's taking the first and last frame as one of them already. So, let's just do modify current layer. I'm not going to remove the background this time. [music] And let's hit generate. All right, and let's check it out. All right, that's a cool looping animation for the water. So, as you can see, all the lighting and everything kind of shifts a bit because, I mean, we are animating a pretty big pixel art image. So, of course, you could like reduce colors, etc. But, the reason I said we would have to do this kind of [music] in parts is because this will be my workflow. So, instead of just trying to manipulate the whole thing, I would kind of just cut the water part off and have the whole other part of the image be the same, right? [music] So, let's do that. Right now, I just want everything but the [music] water. So, I am going to select the water and I'm going to go [music] to select and inverse. So, that way I can select all of this. I'm going to copy that and I'm going to paste it in every single frame. And that way, if we play it now, you can see it's just the water that's animated. Which I think is pretty cool. Now, if we bring the mage back, you see, [music] the water's animated, the mage is animated. Now, we could probably animate this light, right? [music] And this like neon texts. So, let's do that. I'm going to hide the mage one more time I'm going to go back to interpolate using the same first and last frame. Now, I'm going to prompt &gt;&gt; the light glows slightly and the neon texts also glows slightly. Don't mind my bad prompting because we're going to enhance the prompt. So, let's enhance the prompt. And now, instead of modify current layer, I'm going to do new layer &gt;&gt; cuz I don't want to get rid of the water animation. So, let's do that. Boom, new layer. All right, so this is nice. It's kind of glowing and lighting that part up. So, I'm going to do the same thing I did before. &gt;&gt; I'm going to just select the parts that I want [music] to keep animated, which is the altar, basically. Wherever the light hits. And now, I'm just going to inverse, copy that. Now, I'm going to go to our new layer. And there we go. Boom, boom. I kind of missed a little bit of here on top, but I can easily [music] get that. So, again, I'm just going to select what I want to keep. Select, [music] inverse, copy that, go to our new layer, &gt;&gt; and just paste it. And boom, there we have it. Now that we have that, we can go back to our regular size, which was 384 384 by 216. And as you [music] can see, we didn't click trim content outside the canvas. So, it's keeping all of our stuff. &gt;&gt; So, if we click okay, we're back here. Now, you can see we don't have [music] the side borders here, right? So, we got to take that from [music] our main background. So, we'll go here, select that, and just paste it. So, we have the light [music] animated. Now, we need to kind of cut off this part [music] right here so we can have our water flowing. We have the water flowing, we got the light glowing, we have our mage breathing and idling. All right, so now that we figured out how to animate the character, how to animate [music] the background, and basically different parts of the background and stitch them together, now I think it's time to animate the whole So, you can see all three different kind of workflows we can have depending on what we really want to work with [music] cuz sometimes you don't need layers. Like if if you're not going to do any parallax or anything crazy within like a game or actually [music] having the player move something like the character or whatever. If you just want the scene to be animated, we can also do that. So, let's change the canvas size again. Let's do 256 by 256 and let's go to &gt;&gt; edit image. Let's do edit image pro and let's set the image, [music] of course. And now, let's prompt it to move the character to be standing in front of the light looking at it. Actually, I'm going to do it with the last with our last frame from our animation. And let's do new frame. All right, so that's cool. Now, I want to just keep the character, of course. So, let's go to remove background and let's &gt;&gt; do complex and just keep the mage with the magic staff. And yeah, we can modify the current layer. Let's do that. All right. Cool. Let's just fix it up real quick. Nice. &gt;&gt; Now, I'm just going to copy and paste this frame just so we have a duplicate. And I'm going to move our mage right So, now as you can see, the colors are kind of different. So, I'm just going to try to match at least the blue, you know, the brown, kind of like the hair color as well. All righty. Maybe also the gold right here. Cool. That looks good. So, [music] now we can try to interpolate that so we can make it walk up to the light. So, let's try to do that. We're going to go to animate, interpolate new, select this as our start frame, and then this as our end image. &gt;&gt; And you know what? We could actually try to reduce the canvas size and make it work like this. So, the limits on the canvas size for interpolate and animate with text new [music] are 256 in height and 256 in width. So, you can't do different aspect ratios with higher numbers than that. So, let's try this. We'll do, I don't know, 142, whatever. [music] And let's put it right here. Make sure it's all properly lined up. Click okay. let's do start image and [music] And as you can see, now we got more frames to work with since our canvas size is smaller. So, let's try to do 12 frames and let's prompt the mage walks up to the light. And let's do new frame and hit generate. All right, so let's check it out. I think we can try with more frames, honestly. Cuz it kind of skipped a step right That was pretty good, not going to lie. So, let's try one more time. I'm going to do 14 frames cuz remember, our first and last frame are taken into account, so we're getting 12 frames in between. So, let's just hit generate one more time. All right, so let's check it out. So, let's play it. Cool, so we got we got the full movement. So, now it will be a matter of cleaning [music] it up and maybe even like separating the character from the background in each frame so we can just keep the character. I think I think we can do that. Let's try that. Cuz of course, we got to clean our character up. So, first, I would probably just take the eyes because that's one of the most obvious differences. See? Now that makes more sense. Now we can [music] kind of like clean this up, you know? It's a matter of being happy with &gt;&gt; your own sprite. But moving on cuz this would take me a bit of time. Let's remove the background. So, let's go to remove background. I would honestly move [music] the canvas this this so the character is kind of centered cuz the tool works best when the subject you want to keep is kind of centered. And I'm also going to change the canvas size to 128 by 128 so we can just focus on the character. So, let's [music] do that. All right, cool. Now we have our mage. It got one of the mushrooms, but that's fine. We can get rid of that easily. Of course, we want to fix up whatever outlines or whatever you feel like you need to fix up. Remember, this is of course personal tastes and also goals on how you want your sprites to look. But hopefully, you want them to be beautiful. All right, so onto the next frame. All right. I almost removed this perfectly. Again, always count on having to do some kind of manual cleanup, which is always also good practice cuz you don't want to lose your skills. And this is really good editing practice. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; And for example, I think this would be a nice use case for our tool called pixel correction, also. Remember, we used it on the background? Well, think we can also use it here. So, let's try that. Let's modify the current layer. See how it makes it look more cohesive? Before and after. Of course, you can play with the strength. Again, [music] we can use something like two instead of three or four or five or it really depends on your sprite and how much you want it to change and kind of quote unquote fix. All right, so let's keep going. Let's do this one now. So, back to Again, clean it up. All right, next frame. All righty. Same process. Now I'm going to move the canvas just to center the character again [music] cuz remember, we're going to go back to our original canvas size, which was 384 by 216. But we're just separating this character real quick. And there, we did the separate animations for the character and the background. We also did animation for the whole scene, kind of. Not the whole scene, but getting stuff inside the scene to work together. So, getting the mage from point A to point B. You can do the same thing with a door opening, etc. So, if you like this, don't forget to hit that like button. Comment down below what you want to see next and subscribe so you don't miss any of our videos. Thanks for watching and I'll catch you in the next one.
